The Saturday class stage, but there was a time I
understand they had Saturday classes. And you
didn't have a surplus of cash. Right. And you had
maybe Saturday night and Sunday off. And so, you
know, where do you go, you know? Occasionally,
this was like my second year, my brother was at the
University of Texas. He had been in the high school
in the Marine Corps and he was a couple years older
than I am. And then he went back to college and so he
had kind of about caught up with me I guess. He was at
the University of Texas and I used to go over and
visit him, go to Austin.
Okay, kind of some summary questions. As you look
back on it, those years, what did A&M do well?
Academically or anything else? Well, I think
there were some good faculty members that taught
classes and that spent a lot of time with students,
or would, and would work with you about things. I
like Harry Korder, who was English.
K-R-O-I-T-O-R. Yeah, Korder. He's, I think, dead
now. You know, he was, you know, helped me a lot in
terms of writing. You know, in the sense he'd sit
down and would work with you on, let's see what's
wrong with this sentence type stuff. I don't know
too many people how to do that today. Who else were
there that you would, if you had them all around
here now, you would thank? Well, you for one, and I
think Corder, and Brown in sociology. What did I
do? Well, I think just mentored, you know, a time
like we knew you were going to be a veterinarian and
is this the right choice? And, you know, you gave me
a lot of encouragement about, in fact, I think when
I took the Old South course, I wasn't yet, I was
still in vet medicine. I took it as an elective, one
of the electives that you could do, and it's just
out of interest to Southern history, you know. And
encouragement in the sense of papers that you'd
written and other things like that. Political
science, anybody? No, not really. I can say
political science came kind of more at
Midwestern, influence of various and sundry
people. They had some really good young faculty
members at Midwestern. You had, of course,
Isabelle Hunt, who was something of a legend. But
there was a guy, Hoffman, University of Chicago
PhD, taught political theory. You had a guy, Moon,
Korean, ended up at Arlington, who taught
comparative government. Jim Wright, who was from
Duke. Duke, yeah, Jim taught political theory.
You had a guy, Hoffman, who taught American
politics, Congress, and the presidency. And
these were, you know, from 20 degrees, and these
were good people. And very, you know, small
classes, lots of class discussion, you know, lots
of time on court cases, you know, constitutional
law and civil liberties. So I think that was it. The
history faculty, there were some interesting
people there, but I think it retracted more to the
people that were in political science as opposed
to history.
looking at it as objectively as possible what
creates aggie spirit
yeah i know i keep hearing this about the aggie
family and aggie spirit and and you know i think
it's not any one thing there's from the email i
received you would think it was bonfire uh you know
the you know but but really i think it may begin with
fish camp which used to be a lot different deal than
it is now it was a drawn out thing and i think they
used to take them out to junction and stuff like
that there's that there's there's the
silver taps there's the the aggie lore the you know
the the bullshit stories most of which probably
aren't true Like you follow these people that give
the campus tours, the guys that walk backwards.
You ought to do that one time and listen to what,
have you done that? You need to do it. They go by the
academic building all the time. You can just
probably, maybe go over and ask for a campus tour
when you could do one and don't tell them who you are
and you'll find out some interesting things. The
tree in front of Bolton Hall was planted by the
first class of Aggies at Texas A&M. Did you know
that? Not in 1913, as the photographs show. Do you
know why they stopped polishing the dome on the
academic building? Because it was blinding the
pilots and they landed at Easterwood Airport. I
mean, there's just these amazing things. I mean,
they're just ludicrous. All of the logs at Bonfire
are cut with axes. I mean, it just goes on and on. So
there's all this mythology. It's almost like the
Texas mythology. You can make a point that the
people at the Alamo were idiots. Not heroes, but
idiots. There wasn't any way they were going to
beat Napoleon's army. with the damn Kentucky long
rifles and a couple of cannons. But there's this
myth, and there's a lot of that at A&M. And all of
that, I think, adds to it. And lightly, the idea
that you're an Aggie because you're special in the
sense that you can get into A&M. And that makes you
special. Not everybody can get accepted. That
wasn't true back then, I think. They gave you the
Aggie, you know, which hands are yours.
Are there some other events that you haven't
mentioned that you think add to that spirit? Well,
the band, the music, the songs, the yells, the core
trips, all of those things at least at that point
added to the kind of Aggie camaraderie. And of
course there was a lot of, everybody's out in the
hall sitting up against the wall with their knees
drawn up and the company commanders marching up
and down the hall. And you're talking about what
good Aggies do and what bad Aggies, you know, do and
so on, that kind of stuff, you know. Why did you come
to A&M? We got a fight in Texas Aggie. You didn't get
ready to get an education. That's the other
education. And you know, Haskell, judging by the
email messages that I got on Bonfire, these people
got the other education because they can't spell,
they can't write, and they can't think.
All right, what did you do? What special
things did you get out of being here two years? What
did it mean to you to have been here two years? I
don't know whether anything particularly
special. Well, it must have been something
because you didn't turn down a job opportunity.
You could have gone somewhere else. Right, but I
think that was more a matter of a number of things,
why you accepted the job. And it was, you know, pay.
It was resources that they were willing to give
you. It was Gibbons, who was a very dynamic sort of
individual, you know. the colleagues that you
were going to be with, that group of four that
recruited you, those kinds of things that
overcome the sort of negative feelings that you
had. There was also a lot of repression of any sort
of thought out of the ordinary. I still remember
where
You know, there was a case of somebody who didn't
get into who's who, and of course somebody
overrode the committee's decision. And the
battalion wrote an essay entitled, you know, 49
Who's Who and One Who's He, and all hell broke
loose. You know, the battalion editor got fired
back when they could do those kinds of things over.
Basically telling the truth that some dean
exercised political influence to get this guy. He
was somebody who was in the corps, on corps staff,
but he was really kind of a guy that was disliked by a
lot of people, which is why he didn't get who's
who. Let's see. Two other questions then.
Let's make believe somebody walks up to you and
gives you a million-dollar check that has only one
specific requirement. You must pass it on to Texas
A&M, but you can decide the use that A&M would make
for that money. If you could make a big, meaningful
gift, what would it be for? Undergraduate
scholarship. for what How would the, who, what
undergraduates? Well, I might pick political
science instead of liberal arts. How would you
select the specific ones? I don't know that I would
want to do that. No, but you'd have the university
select them on the basis of what? On the basis of
merit and need. Merit and need. Okay. All right.
Then the last question is a serious one. What
feelings do you hold in your heart for Texas A&M? I
think, you know, about it. There are aspects of it
that, you know, you say it really could be a great
university, but it really could meet the 2020
vision, but I don't think it's going to, unless
somebody begins to take that bonfire report
seriously. I think that was very devastating to,
or it should be viewed as being very devastating
the people in charge of this place. But I haven't
heard anybody say or haven't heard anyone ask, and
maybe they will, you know, what can we do to address
that problem among the students at Texas A&M
University and among the administration? It's
not just confined to the students. I have a lot of it
in the administration. And some of that's because
over the years you keep hiring, you know, your
graduates to come back, you know, bachelor,
master, Ph.D., you know, retired. I mean, look at
engineering, the degree to which that's true,
agriculture, the degree to which that's true.
And, you know, that ought to be something that
somebody really ought to be concerned with. And
maybe, you know, I admit Bowen's been very tied up
with We're just getting, you know, to this point.
And obviously he must have made the right
decision. He made both sides mad. And I respect, I
think what he did was the right thing. I might have
gone another year without Bonfire. But at some
point maybe he will address that issue. We,
Faculty Senate Executive Committee asked to meet
with him at some point and we want to talk about that
aspect of it. And how do you address the change of
culture? I don't know. What's going on?